README.md, before:

# Stellar::Base

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stellar/ruby-stellar-base.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/stellar/ruby-stellar-base)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/stellar/ruby-stellar-base/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/stellar/ruby-stellar-base)

The stellar-base library is the lowest-level stellar helper library.  It consists of classes
to read, write, hash, and sign the xdr structures that are used in stellard.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'stellar-base'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install stellar-base

Also requires libsodium. Installable via `brew install libsodium` on OS X.

## Supported Ruby Versions

Please see [travis.yml](.travis.yml) for what versions of ruby are currently tested by our continuous integration system.  Any ruby in that list is officially supported.

### JRuby

It seems as though jruby is particularly slow when it comes to BigDecimal math; the source behind this slowness has not been investigated, but it is something to be aware of.

## Usage

[Examples are here](examples)

In addition to the code generated from the XDR definition files (see [ruby-xdr](https://github.com/stellar/ruby-xdr) for example usage), this library also provides some stellar specific features.  Let's look at some of them.

We wrap rbnacl with `Stellar::KeyPair`, providing some stellar specific functionality as seen below:

```ruby

# Create a keypair from a stellar secret seed
signer = Stellar::KeyPair.from_seed("SCBASSEX34FJNIPLUYQPSMZHHYXXQNWOOV42XYZFXM6EGYX2DPIZVIA3")

# Create a keypair from a stellar address
verifier = Stellar::KeyPair.from_address("GBQWWBFLRP3BXD2RI2FH7XNNU2MKIYVUI7QXUAIVG34JY6MQGXVUO3RX")

# Produce a stellar compliant "decorated signature" that is compliant with stellar transactions

signer.sign_decorated("Hello world!") # => #<Stellar::DecoratedSignature ...>

```

This library also provides an impementation of Stellar's "StrKey" encoding (RFC-4648 Base32 + CCITT-XModem CRC16):

```ruby

Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_encode(:account_id, "\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF") # => "GD777777777764TU"
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_encode(:seed, "\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x39") # => "SAAAAAAAAAADST3H"

# To prevent interpretation mistakes, you must pass the expected version byte
# when decoding a check_encoded value

encoded = Stellar::Util::StrCheck.check_encode(:account_id, "\x61\x6b\x04\xab\x8b\xf6\x1b")
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_decode(:account_id, encoded) # => "\x61\x6b\x04\xab\x8b\xf6\x1b"
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_decode(:seed, encoded) # => throws ArgumentError: Unexpected version: :account_id

```

## Updating Generated Code

The generated code of this library must be refreshed each time the Stellar network's protocol is updated.  To perform this task, run `rake xdr:update`, which will download the latest `.x` files into the `xdr` folder and will run `xdrgen` to regenerate the built ruby code.

## Caveats

The current integration of user-written code with auto-generated classes is to put it nicely, weird.  We intend to segregate the auto-generated code into its own namespace and refrain from monkey patching them.  This will happen before 1.0, and hopefully will happen soon.

## Contributing

Please [see CONTRIBUTING.md for details](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Add factories for ledger, transaction, operation (#42)
Having factories aids in testing for developers that use
this gem. The file is included in `lib`, but isn't loaded
unless `require 'stellar-base/factories'`. The downside is
that the file is shipped into production, so will take up
disk space, but it will not be loaded into memory.

README.md, after:

# Stellar::Base

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stellar/ruby-stellar-base.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/stellar/ruby-stellar-base)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/stellar/ruby-stellar-base/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/stellar/ruby-stellar-base)

The stellar-base library is the lowest-level stellar helper library.  It consists of classes
to read, write, hash, and sign the xdr structures that are used in stellard.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'stellar-base'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install stellar-base

Also requires libsodium. Installable via `brew install libsodium` on OS X.

## Supported Ruby Versions

Please see [travis.yml](.travis.yml) for what versions of ruby are currently tested by our continuous integration system.  Any ruby in that list is officially supported.

### JRuby

It seems as though jruby is particularly slow when it comes to BigDecimal math; the source behind this slowness has not been investigated, but it is something to be aware of.

## Usage

[Examples are here](examples)

In addition to the code generated from the XDR definition files (see [ruby-xdr](https://github.com/stellar/ruby-xdr) for example usage), this library also provides some stellar specific features.  Let's look at some of them.

We wrap rbnacl with `Stellar::KeyPair`, providing some stellar specific functionality as seen below:

```ruby

# Create a keypair from a stellar secret seed
signer = Stellar::KeyPair.from_seed("SCBASSEX34FJNIPLUYQPSMZHHYXXQNWOOV42XYZFXM6EGYX2DPIZVIA3")

# Create a keypair from a stellar address
verifier = Stellar::KeyPair.from_address("GBQWWBFLRP3BXD2RI2FH7XNNU2MKIYVUI7QXUAIVG34JY6MQGXVUO3RX")

# Produce a stellar compliant "decorated signature" that is compliant with stellar transactions

signer.sign_decorated("Hello world!") # => #<Stellar::DecoratedSignature ...>

```

This library also provides an impementation of Stellar's "StrKey" encoding (RFC-4648 Base32 + CCITT-XModem CRC16):

```ruby

Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_encode(:account_id, "\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFF") # => "GD777777777764TU"
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_encode(:seed, "\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x39") # => "SAAAAAAAAAADST3H"

# To prevent interpretation mistakes, you must pass the expected version byte
# when decoding a check_encoded value

encoded = Stellar::Util::StrCheck.check_encode(:account_id, "\x61\x6b\x04\xab\x8b\xf6\x1b")
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_decode(:account_id, encoded) # => "\x61\x6b\x04\xab\x8b\xf6\x1b"
Stellar::Util::StrKey.check_decode(:seed, encoded) # => throws ArgumentError: Unexpected version: :account_id

```

During development of your app, you may include the [FactoryBot](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_bot) definitions in your specs:

```ruby
require "stellar-base/factories"
```

See the factories file for information on what factories are available.

## Updating Generated Code

The generated code of this library must be refreshed each time the Stellar network's protocol is updated.  To perform this task, run `rake xdr:update`, which will download the latest `.x` files into the `xdr` folder and will run `xdrgen` to regenerate the built ruby code.

## Caveats

The current integration of user-written code with auto-generated classes is to put it nicely, weird.  We intend to segregate the auto-generated code into its own namespace and refrain from monkey patching them.  This will happen before 1.0, and hopefully will happen soon.

## Contributing

Please [see CONTRIBUTING.md for details](CONTRIBUTING.md).
